# Assignment 6 - Application Compilation (Data Model/Storage)

This branch is for assignment 6. If you were trying to view another assignment, please checkout the `main` branch of this repository to read instructions.

## Instructions to Run

To run the app, double click the shortcut `/ShortcutFileSystemApp.exe`. **If the shortcut did not use a relative path**, open the executable in `/publish/FileSystemApp.exe`. Code can be reviewed in the `/FileSystemApp/` directory.

The app will prompt you to log in. There are two users you can log in with.
1. `admin` -
    - user has near unlimited privileges.
    - password is also admin.
2. `guest`
    - user has limited privileges

Merely type the user name to start the session. If a password is required, a new prompt will ask for it.

Once logged in, you can chose from the following commands:

## List of Acceptable Commands

1. `list` - lists all files and directories in the current working directory (including the current user access)
1. `move {file or directory} {destination directory}` - moves a file in the current working directory to a new location. Start the destination with "/" to reference root directory.
1. `relocate {directory}` - change the current working directory. Can be a relative or absolute path.
1. `create {file or directory}` - creates a file or directory in the current working directory. Currently does not create recursively.
1. `delete {file or directory}` - deletes a file or empty directory. Accepts relative and absolute paths.
1. `update {permission string} {file or directory}` - udpates the permissions of the file or directory. The permission string shorthand is 5 digits long (CRUDX) with 1s for permission granted and 0s for permissions denied. For example, a string of "11101" allows for all CRUDX permissions EXCEPT delete.
1. `login` - change the login user. You will be prompted with a new input for user name. Type "cancel" to cancel the login and return to the previous session.
1. `exit` - exits the application. The command prompt will close.

## Behind the scenes
The fake data is located in a file called `/publish/fake_dat.json`. This file is updated with every change and will persist from session to session.

Since the data is fake, I did not work too hard at creating clean casting models for the JSON. The JSON casts can be found in `/FileSystemApp/adapters/FakeDiskAdapter.cs`.

## Changes from Last Assignment

Because the previous submission fulfilled the requirements for this assignment, there are no major changes in this application. However, an [API](https://github.com/booellean/FileSystemAPI) is being developed to host the file and directoroy data online. It is not complete, but the major architecture is in place; this includes policies (similar to permissions), controllers, user sessions, and a base of test data. This data is generated by launching the docker application, running the php shell with `docker-compose exec php bash` then running `php artisan load:install`.
